Summer Yoga Classes

Joins us every Thursday at 6:00 pm near the Frog Pond Carousel for free summer yoga! Vibrant instructors will lead a vinyasa flow class for all levels, encouraging everyone to challenge themselves at their own pace. The classes focus on releasing stress and expanding energy, all while taping into nature at America’s oldest public park. Participants should come prepared with their own mats and plenty of water.

2019 Summer Yoga Schedule
June 6th
June 13th
June 20th – No Class
June 27th
July 4th – No Class
July 11th
July 18th
July 25th
August 1st
August 8th
August 15th
August 22nd
August 29th
September 5th
September 12th
September 19th
September 26th

-------


Inner peace

Our world can be a beautiful, crazy place. There are moments of despair, and sometimes life feels like it’s moving in fast forward. Inner
peace can seem like something reserved for a monk sitting crossed-legged on top of a mountain. The truth is that our authentic nature is quiet and serene. We all have the ability to access tranquility, we need only apply ourselves.

HERE ARE 5 WAYS TO HELP FIND INNER PEACE:
1. SCREEN DETOX
Whether it’s for work or play, much of our lives are spent in front of a computer. Make it a point to take breaks and move away from your screen. Check your social media pages only once per day. If you are able, set a time when you shut down your system completely. Use this time without technology to spend with loved ones, to read, or take a walk.

This goes for your cell phone, too. Use it as necessary, and if you are able, shut it down at a certain time in the evening.

2. MEDITATION
It isn’t just for yoga teachers, and you don’t need hours to practice. Find five minutes to sit without distractions in a chair or on a pillow or blanket on the floor. Lengthen gently from the crown of the head. Close your eyes and rest your hands on your thighs. Follow the flow of the breath from the nostrils to the throat, and back, on each inhale and exhale. When a thought comes to mind, welcome it by saying hello, and then say goodbye, as you return to tracing the path of your breath. Do this again and again, until the five minutes are up. You will be surprised how much peace this can bring to your life if practiced regularly.

-----

A Strong and Flexible Body

Many people are unaware of the fact that there are different types of flexibility. These different types of flexibility are grouped according to the various types of activities involved in athletic training. The ones which involve motion are called dynamic and the ones which do not are called static. The different types of flexibility (according to Kurz) are:


dynamic flexibility
Dynamic flexibility (also called kinetic flexibility) is the ability to perform dynamic (or kinetic) movements of the muscles to bring a limb through its full range of motion in the joints.

static-active flexibility
Static-active flexibility (also called active flexibility) is the ability to assume and maintain extended positions using only the tension of the agonists and synergists while the antagonists are being stretched (see section Cooperating Muscle Groups). For example, lifting the leg and keeping it high without any external support (other than from your own leg muscles).

static-passive flexibility
Static-passive flexibility (also called passive flexibility) is the ability to assume extended positions and then maintain them using only your weight, the support of your limbs, or some other apparatus (such as a chair or a barre). Note that the ability to maintain the position does not come solely from your muscles, as it does with static-active flexibility. Being able to perform the splits is an example of static-passive flexibility.
Research has shown that active flexibility is more closely related to the level of sports achievement than is passive flexibility. Active flexibility is harder to develop than passive flexibility (which is what most people think of as "flexibility"); not only does active flexibility require passive flexibility in order to assume an initial extended position, it also requires muscle strength to be able to hold and maintain that position.